{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Calibri-Italic;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Calibri-Bold;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}{\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Cambria-Italic;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria-Italic;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0 Cambria-Bold;}{\f6\fswiss\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f7\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red23\green54\blue93;\red54\green95\blue146;\red79\green130\blue190;\red34\green34\blue34;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green177\blue80;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2509;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\lang9\i\f0\fs32 Data Analytics\par
\cf2\b\i0\f1\fs24 A C A D G I L D\par
Page 1\par
\cf3\b0\f2\fs72 Project 1.1\par
\cf2\b\f1\fs24 A C A D G I L D\par
Page 2\par
\cf1\b0\i\f3\fs32 Project \f4\endash  \f3 Simple Regression Analysis on Fuel Economy Data\par
\cf4\b\i0\f5\fs28 Table of Contents\par
\cf1\b0\f6\fs22 1. Introduction .......................................................................................................................................... 3\par
2. Objective ............................................................................................................................................... 3\par
3. Prerequisites ......................................................................................................................................... 3\par
4. Associated Data Files ............................................................................................................................ 3\par
5. Problem Statement ............................................................................................................................... 3\par
6. Approximate Time to Complete Task ................................................................................................... 5\par
\cf2\b\f1\fs24 A C A D G I L D\par
Page 3\par
\cf5\f5\fs28 1. Introduction\par
\cf1\b0\f7\fs22 You are provided with two datasets, \ldblquote FE2010.csv\rdblquote  and \ldblquote FE2011.csv\rdblquote . You are required to work on\par
\ldblquote FE2010.csv\rdblquote  only for any kind of experiment. The datasets contain different estimates of fuel economy\par
\f6 for passenger cars and trucks. For each vehicle, various characteristics are recorded such as the engine\par
displacement or number of cylinders. Along with these values, laboratory measurements are made for\par
the city and highway fuel economy (FE) of the car.\par
Analyze the data on the relationship between fuel economy and engine displacement. The training data\par
consists of model year 2010 data and the test set is comprised of cars from 2011 that were not in the\par
2010 data set.\par
You are required to build a Regression Model for fuel economy (FE), by choosing a single input variable\par
which is the best suitable for predicting FE. You will use 2010 dataset for this purpose. All your work will\par
be validated on 2011 dataset.\par
\cf5\b\f5\fs28 2. Objective\par
\cf6\b0\f6\fs24 The project aims to perform Simple Regression Analysis on Fuel Economy Data.\par
\cf5\b\f5\fs28 3. Prerequisites\par
\cf1\b0\f6\fs22 N/A\par
\cf5\b\f5\fs28 4. Associated Data Files\par
\cf7\b0\f6\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B3nTkXniPMACMUc0RVJXODhlUDA/view?usp=sharing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf7 https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B3nTkXniPMACMUc0RVJXODhlUDA/view?usp=sharing}}}\f6\fs22\par
\cf5\b\f5\fs28 5. Problem Statement\par
\cf1\b0\f6\fs24 Below are the points which your final submission should answer:\par
\cf6\b\f1 Use Excel and Functions\par
\cf1\b0\f6 1. Find the best input variable for predicting FE using suitable statistical test(s).\par
2. Fit a Simple Linear Regression Model using the selected input variable. Use the formulas\par
discussed in the class to calculate the coefficients.\par
3. Observe the relationship between the Input variable and FE and analyze if they maintain\par
a linear relationship using a suitable chart in Excel.\par
4. Use appropriate transformation of input variable if the relation above is not linear. Build\par
the Regression model after transformation. Please ask the course instructor for help in\par
variable transformation, if you required so.\par
5. Calculate the MAPE (Mean Absolute percentage Error) and R2 of the model. Implement\par
the model on the test data and find out the test accuracy as well. The formula and small\par
note for the error calculation are given at the end of the document.\par
6. Use a random sampling method to divide the dataset in to 3 parts. Use rand() function.\par
\cf2\b\f1 A C A D G I L D\par
Page 4\par
\cf1\b0\f6 a. Take 2 parts for modeling and 1 part for testing at a time randomly.\par
b. Check the modeling Error statistics (as given in previous point 5) of the model\par
and test on the 3rd part of the data for testing the error.\par
c. Iterate this process 3 time to cover all possible selection of 2 parts for modeling\par
and the 3rd part for testing. There are 3 possible combination in this way. So you\par
would end up with creating 3 models on three different dataset.\par
d. Calculate the average model accuracy (Use Error formulas from 5.) and average\par
test accuracy. Judge if they are consistent and provide your comment on what\par
you observe.\par
e. Compute the Beta coefficients by taking average of the three models.\par
f. Test the final Accuracy by implementing the model on 2011 dataset.\par
\b\f1 Use Excel Data Analysis tool\par
\b0\f6 7. Use Data Analysis feature of Excel to bypass the co-efficient calculation formulas and\par
compute the Regression Model directly.\par
8. \f7 You should be able to repeat all the points asked under \ldblquote Use Excel\rdblquote  using Data Analysis\par
\f6 tool. You may need to do the random sampling separately here as well.\par
\b\f1 Use MySQL\par
\b0\f6 9. Upload the 2010 and 2\f7 011 dataset into a MySQL database named \ldblquote fuel_economy\rdblquote . The\par
table name should be \ldblquote fe2010\rdblquote  and \ldblquote fe2011\rdblquote  respectively.\par
\f6 10. You have already calculated the beta coefficients for the full 2010 dataset. Insert two\par
additional columns for the beta coefficients in th\f7 e \ldblquote fe2010\rdblquote  table and populate the\par
\f6 columns with beta values. You can just take the previously calculate beta values to\par
populate here. Remember the beta values will be constant for each column here.\par
11. Once point 10. is done, Calculate the Predicted value for \f7\ldblquote feb2011\rdblquote  table by using the\par
input variable from \ldblquote feb2011\rdblquote  and beta coefficients from \ldblquote feb2010\rdblquote  table. Insert the\par
predicted values in an additional column in table \ldblquote feb2010\rdblquote .\par
\b\f1 Appendix:\par
\cf8 MAPE\par
\cf1\b0\f6 The mean absolute percentage error (MAPE), also known as mean absolute percentage\par
deviation (MAPD), is a measure of prediction accuracy of a forecasting method in statistics, for\par
example in trend estimation. It usually expresses accuracy as a percentage, and is defined by\par
the formula:\par
\cf2\b\f1 A C A D G I L D\par
Page 5\par
\cf1\b0\f6 Where \i\f0 A\fs16 t \i0\f6\fs24 is the actual value and \i\f0 F\fs16 t \i0\f6\fs24 is the forecast value.\par
The difference between \i\f0 A\fs16 t \i0\f6\fs24 and \i\f0 F\fs16 t \i0\f6\fs24 is divided by the Actual value \i\f0 A\fs16 t \i0\f6\fs24 again. The absolute value in\par
this calculation is summed for every forecasted point in time and divided by the number of\par
fitted points \i\f0 n\i0\f6 . multiplying by 100 makes it a percentage error.\par
\cf8\b\f1 Coefficient of determination (R2)\par
\cf1\b0\f6 In statistics, the \b\f1 coefficient of determination\b0\f6 , denoted \i\f0 R\i0\f6\fs16 2 \fs24 or \i\f0 r\i0\f6\fs16 2 \fs24 and pronounced "R squared", is\par
a number that indicates the proportion of the variance in the dependent variable that is\par
predictable from the independent variable.\par
It is a statistic used in the context of statistical models whose main purpose is either the\par
prediction of future outcomes or the testing of hypotheses, on the basis of other related\par
information. It provides a measure of how well observed outcomes are replicated by the model,\par
based on the proportion of total variation of outcomes explained by the model.\par
A power point has been provided for more detail on \i\f0 R\i0\f6\fs16 2 \fs24 and its formula. Please refer to it.\par
\cf5\b\f5\fs28 6. Approximate Time to Complete Task\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b0\f6\fs22 20 hrs\cf0\f7\par
}
 